Now the last step in order for us to deploy our portfolio Web site is to go to the configuration file
right here when we click on this.
You'll get a whole bunch of text and we can actually delete a ton of these things you'll see over here
that you can have things set up based on what framework you use like flask.
So because we're using flask let's remove all of this code just have the flask section and we'll remove
the comments.
So we have import CIS and it has some description here that you can read on your own.
But the key thing that we want
is to remove the comments from here.
Just like that.
And then we want to make sure that the directory.
So Andre has a path
portfolio so remember our directory was home user name.
And then the name of our project next we want to make sure that we give the name as the name of our
file.
So in my case it was server dot pi.
If you remember I have server dot pie right over here and we're exporting it as app.
So the app is the variable and server is the file name.
So if you have a different file name let's say you have run dot pie.
Then you'd put run here.
So let's do server let's see it save and let's go back to the Web.
If I reload and run this we get an error.
Now an interesting feature of Python anywhere is that we can actually look at the logs.
So over here the log files we can see what errors or what the server is logging.
So in our case let's look at the errors module not found error.
No module named server all right.
That's interesting.
Let's see why that might be.
So if we go back to our configuration file the reason that we got the error was well because I misspelled
the path so it cannot find the server.
So Port FO If I see this go back to web reload and click on our Web site Ho Lee moley.
We have our portfolio project life that link over there I can share with anybody and they could see
it on their computer if they're halfway across the world.
Let's say in India.
Yep.
They can see my portfolio.
But you want to know what the coolest part is.
Well the fact that all of our pages work but also our contact form.
So if I do something like let's make this a little bit bigger so you can see are two dot.com some subject
line and then oh somebody super super excited I hit send that worked in the cool part is that next time
let's say somebody contacted you.
All you have to do is actually go back to Python anywhere.
So let's go to a new page of Python anywhere
go into the files and then check out the database dot CSP and look at that.
You have a new entry into your CSP file and I can even save the file I can download the file so that
later on a week from now I can check up on the progress and see how my portfolio is doing.
And now I hope you started to see the power that comes with this
we've created an entire web platform ourselves we've created the ACM all CSX and JavaScript files while
we use some templates but we still modified them to our liking and you can continue to update them and
change them to your liking but we also created a server ourselves that also contains a CSA v file that
will be saved on this machine and we move that machine from just our computers to someplace like Python
anywhere that has a dedicated server or a server space for us so that it's always running.
And this is how things like databases and places like a W S Google Cloud Azure and any other database
or server platform works.
They allow you to use their machine.
They make sure that they're going to run fast that they're always going to be on and databases allow
you to safe things.
So instead of saving items in a CSP we can save it and into a dedicated database so we can do more operations
or we can store more information.
But I hope that opens up the world of web development to you and how everything is connected in just
a few hours we're able to create a pretty neat looking portfolio.
Right.
I mean yeah there were some configuration some issues but now that you know how to do it I bet you see
a whole lot of possibilities of what you can do.
You can now customize the site whichever way you want maybe learn a little bit more HCM L or CSX to
make the Web site a little bit more to your liking maybe you want to add some javascript to make it
even more interactive.
Or maybe you want to explore different things like perhaps hosting this application in someplace other
than Python anyway or maybe creating your own database the possibilities are endless.
So I hope this was exciting to you.
This is one of my favorite topics and it was a lot of things that we covered in a short amount of time.
You're not going to be an expert web developer just from a few videos but I hope this at least shows
you the world of web development and how you might want to be involved in this world.
Good job getting this far.
This was a really tough section.
If your brain hurts.
Don't worry.
Go take a nap and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.